Content developers must consider these different situations during
page design. While there are several situations to consider, each
accessible design choice generally benefits several disability groups
at once and the Web community as a whole. For example, by using style
sheets to control font styles and eliminating the FONT element, HTML
authors will have more control over their pages, make those pages more
accessible to people with low vision, and by sharing the style sheets,
will often shorten page download times for all users.

The guidelines discuss accessibility issues and provide accessible
design solutions. They address typical scenarios that may pose problems for users with certain
disabilities. For example, the first guideline explains how content
developers can make images accessible. Some users may not be able to
see images, others may use text-based browsers that do not support images, while others may have turned off support for images . The guidelines do not suggest avoiding
images as a way to improve accessibility. Instead, they explain that
providing a text equivalent of the image will make it accessible.


Text content can be presented to the user as synthesized speech,
braille, and visually-displayed text. Each of these three
mechanisms uses a different sense such as ears for synthesized speech,
tactile for braille, and eyes for visually-displayed text,
making the information accessible to groups representing a variety
of sensory and other disabilities.
In order to be useful, the text must convey the same function or
purpose as the image. For example, consider a text equivalent for
a photographic image of the Earth as seen from outer space. If the
purpose of the image is mostly that of decoration, then the text
"Photograph of the Earth as seen from outer space" might fulfill
the necessary function. If the purpose of the photograph is to
illustrate specific information about world geography, then the
text equivalent should convey that information. If the photograph
has been designed to tell the user to select the image  for information about the earth,
equivalent textwould be Information about the Earth. Thus, if the text conveys
the same function or purpose for the user with a disability as the
image does for other users, then it can be considered a text
equivalent.

Note that, in addition to benefitting users with disabilities, text
equivalents can help all users find pages more quickly, since search
robots can use the text when indexing the pages.

While Web content developers must provide text equivalents for images
and other multimedia content, it is the responsibility of user agents
to present the information to the user.

Non-text equivalents of text can make documents accessible to people who may have difficulty accessing
written text, including many individuals with cognitive disabilities,
learning disabilities, and deafness. Non-text equivalents of text can
also be helpful to non-readers. An auditory description is an example
of a non-text equivalent of visual information. An auditory
description of a multimedia presentation's visual track benefits
people who cannot see the visual information.